2020-12-28

## Caer Dineval

In generation's past, travelers to Caer Dineval followed the same path as you,
along the rocky shore of Lac Dinneshire until after several hours they spied a
small fortress jutting up from the prominence where it overlooks the lake. A
ferry out of Easthaven made the arduous trek unnecessary for merchants and other
travelers, but the ferry was discontinued two months ago, cutting off Caer
Dineval and its neighbor Caer Konig from the rest of Ten-Towns except by the
overland route. Residents of both towns are furious that the ferry services has
stopped, mainly because they have not received deliveries of mead from the town
of Good Mead, and the taverns have run dry.

Whether arriving "by land or by lac", visitors are immediately confronted by the
fortifications for which the town is famous, known as the Caer, and the ruined
watchtower at the mouth of the frozen harbor. The small castle was built over
four hundred years ago by the Dinev family from Cormyr, before Ten-Towns existed
as anything more than a few scattered camps of explorers living off the lands.
Most of the town's buildings, which date back to the town's Cormyrean founders,
line the path that winds down the steep slope from the Caer to the harbor, whose
docks are perched on the rocky shore.

### Torg's Caravan

You're here because you are hot on the tail of Osgood Dickens' murderer and you
have identified your suspect. He is a member of Torg's traveling caravan. Torg's
caravan consists of three heavily laden dog sleds, each one pulled by six
friendly sled dogs that lay about panting in the snow now that their work for
the day is done. Torg's is an outdoor shop. Goods are unpacked and displayed in
crates with small canopies to keep the snow off them.

When you arrived there were several patrons lined up to purchase goods from
Torg's. Torg, a stout female dwarf, takes orders from and entertains the
shoppers. The other five pull items from poorly arranged crates and package them
for customers. Jim identifies the killer and his glowing blue eyes when he meets
his gaze.

While trying to cut in line, Yzma happens to run into a fan who is carrying
armfuls of wine and cheese. His name is Garion Valere. Garion recognizes Yzma as
the author of "Hellbent Highborn" and is ecstatic to meet her. He invites her to
be the guest of honor at the castle where there is wine and cheese and food and
feasting and beds and warmth.

Fastbatch walks a short distance off with the accused killer. The killer
confesses to Fastbatch that he kills people who ignore the sacrifices to Auril.
The killer was given a second chance at life by druidic resurrection. As
repayment, they ordered him to serve Auril. He ends the conversation by telling
Fastbatch that he needs to get back to work. Walking back towards the caravan,
he takes off his cold weather gear. He's obviously unaffected by the cold.

Fastbatch punches him in the back of the head as he is walking away.

**Next Post:** [Session Six
Notes](https://frostmaiden.assimilate.dev/session-six-notes/)
