# Session One Notes

2020-11-02

## Cold Open

Session was opened with an explanation and clarification of specific
[house rules](https://github.com/assimilate-dev/frostmaiden/blob/main/README.md).

The world was introduced narratively in a
[cold open](https://github.com/assimilate-dev/frostmaiden/blob/main/act1/1_cold_open.txt).

## The Luskan Arms

Jim and Fastbatch met Thoval and Yzma at The Luskan Arms: a nautical-themed
tavern that had seen better days. Owenn Tarsenel, the inn-keep, was disinterested
and too depressed to engage with the characters. 

After some brief conversation, Speaker Naerth Maxildanarr entered the common room
of the inn from his room upstairs. He was engaged in conversation with a dwarf
named Shandar Froth and followed by a large tiefling named Skath and another
player character: Neville.

From the conversation that Naerth was not trying to keep quiet the players
learned the following:

  - There is an election in Good Mead for a new speaker
  - Naerth and Shandar have a business arrangement for shipping mead to Targos
  - A fisherman named Niko is upset that Osgood Dickens owes him and a lot of others money
  - Naerth assured Niko that everything would be worked out and that he would be covered

Naerth gave the characters his blessing and free reign of the town for a single
night. He made it clear that he expected the characters to move along the
following morning. He is not interested in outsiders, especially outsiders from
Bryan Shander, poking their noses around town and stirring up trouble. He
expressed no concern about the possibility of additional murders and remarked
that the murderer actually did him a favor since Osgood owed money all around
town. More than anything, Naerth is specifically interested in getting back to
the business of supplying Ten-Towns with trout.

Neville was introduced as a hired hand and was told that he would be paid twice
what the others were paid with a potential for more if he finds the killer.
Before leaving the inn, Neville challenged well-respected elder Niko to a
fishing competition.

If the players learned one thing in the inn, it's that the citizens of Targos do
not take kindly to strangers meddling in their business.

## Dickens' Custom Boats

The players, led by Fastbatch, decided to investigate Dickens' offices and boat
workshop on the northern dock. Fastbatch was worried that Jim would find the
evidence and take all the glory.

The players enter the dock-house from the frozen water side. All of the boats are
hopelessly trapped in the ice. Fastbatch discerns that all the boats look like
they are being repaired; not built.

The house attached to the workshop is abandoned and seems to have been
unmolested. It was quiet and dark and the players entered through a door after
Jim picked the lock.

Neville cased the house, going straight for the business papers, and found that
Osgood had a business partner, Garret Velryn, and that Osgood had paid a large
sum of money five days ago to Speaker Maxildanarr.

## Three Flags Sailing

The tavern looks like it has been built inside of what was one someone's large
house. There is a subdued atmosphere on the inside and the smell of burning
whale fat.

Yzma spent 1 GP to supply the whole crew with drinks. They are supplied with
what tastes like a hot cider but is a warmed version of the special mead that
comes from Good Mead. The fishermen in Targos have a strange taste for fish oil
in their drinks.

The characters have a brief back and forth with the inn-keeper, "Ma". She's
blunt and straightforward but hospitable. She explains to the characters why
the citizens of Targos may not take kindly to do-gooders from Bryn Shander
poking around.

Most of the party the find and speak to Skath who seems to enjoy the bagpipe
entertainment while spending time with the characters. He tells them that he
is a doer and a fixer for Speaker Maxildanarr. Skath let's everyone know
without hesitation that Osgood owed a lot of people money because he built
boats with a bad batch of lumber. He also isn't afraid to hide the fact that
Osgood paid off Speaker Naerth to avoid the sacrifice lottery when his name was
drawn.

Skath tells the characters that Osgood's business partner Garret is the main
suspect. He travels from town to town which would make him able to murder in
different towns. Also, less than twelve hours after Osgood's death, Garret found
an excuse to get out of Targos on a big money job to Kelvin's Cairn near Caer
Konig.

While Skath is giving this information to Fastbatch, the other quiet man with
Niko named Delancy barges in and accuses Skath and Naerth of missing the
obvious suspects. He starts a fight with the man in the corner, the last player
character: Titus. Titus deftly dodges Delancy's attacks and runs out of the bar.

Once the dust has settled, Skath throws Delancy out of the bar and accuses the
groups investigation of stirring up this type of trouble.

Skath makes the point that regardless of whether or not Garret is guilty, he
will likely be a key witness in the case. If they want more information about
Garret they should visit his husband Keegan in the morning.

Osgood's body has been burned on a boat in Maer Dualdon according to the common
practices.

Yzma strikes up a conversation with Skath to find out he owes a life debt to
Naerth. Naerth was a pirate that often took port in Luskan and rescued him from
a slaving ship. He's muscle for Naerth and thinks his master is harsh but fair
and a great businessman. He explains the bonds of shared sacrifice in Icewind
Dale.

Before everyone left, Neville tells Niko he would beat him in a fishing
competition. He said he would be back in four days and bet all the money he
makes on this adventure that he can win in a fishing competition.

## Triglio

After leaving the Three Flags Sailing, most of the party went back to The Luskan
Arms to retire.

Fastbatch and Jim left to go to Triglio, the general store. Fastbatch poured
wine on himself and pretended to be wounded. Jim shouted murder from the porch
of the general store. Their deception and performance checks were enough to coax
a very unhappy Justin Hunrae to the door. His wife Ulita, hid behind the door the
entire time. Fastbatch's goal was to find out what or who killed Osgood. Since
Ulita is a local healer the figure that she saw Osgood's body before burial.
Justin is short, mean, and violent after being woken up in the middle of the
night but he figures curt cooperation will go farther than an outright fight.
There is an independent streak in Targosians. They find out that Osgood had a
single, smooth wound through his entire body that seemed too clean for any kind
of conventional weapon.

Upon reaching the inn Yzma decided to try to seduce Naerth. She is staying in the room beside Naerth.
She overhears the following information from an agent reporting to Naerth:

  - Agents in Termailaine created a scandal in an attempt to depose Speaker Masthew
  - A frost giant killed the speaker of Good Mead Shandar Froth put his name in the pot for the new speaker
  - The ancient white dragon they've been keeping tabs on has been spotted far to the east
  - Duergar have been sighted out in the open tundra

She casts Thaumaturgy to create a shake in the second story. This draws Naerth
from the room. She meets Naerth outside in a skimpy outfit. She faints and draws
Naerth close into an awkward situation. He shakily dodges her advances but is
convinced that somehow this was all his fault.

## The Next Morning

Yzma received an apology breakfast that has obviously expensive foods. Not
expensive under normal circumstances but definitely expensive considering that
plant-based food is scarce. Additionally there was a handwritten letter of
commendation from Naerth and a golden necklace.
