# Session Two Notes

2020-11-16

## Titus and Boy

The characters decide to head to Garret and Keegan's house before leaving town.
Owenn the depressed barkeep tell the party that the couple live in the first
house past the second pier. Titus wanders drunkenly out of a nearby alley while
others are engaged in a conversation about the average male height in Icewind
Dale. Titus admits he was the one in the bar the previous night who fled. He
convinces the party that he was not eavesdropping but he did overhear bits and
pieces of their conversation. Titus has an interest in finding the Osgood's real
killer because he wants to clear his name. Others in town think that Titus is
the murderer because he is weird quiet, and drunk. He wants to tag along with
the group. Titus assures the group he will pull his own weight as he has spent
plenty of time out in the wilderness.He also relays to the party that all of his
interactions with Garret have been positive.

A dog wanders up and sits down beside Titus. The dog found Titus and is (or was)
owned by Garret. The dog's name is Boy. Boy speeds up and runs to the house once
he is close.

## Garret and Keegan's House

The door opens and the dog bolts inside. A tall, strikingly handsome man opens
the door. This is Garret's husband of 10 years, Keegan. He invites the
characters in from the cold and anticipates bad news. Keegan is worried about
his husband, Garret and asks the group what they know. Keegan is invited and
forthcoming and obviously worried about his husband. He relays the following
information:

- Garret left two days ago in a hurry
- Garret often has wealthy clients looking to leave in a hurry
- Garret is considered one of the best expedition guides in Icewind Dale
- Garret set out north across the tundra with 6 sleds dogs, one of which was Boy

Keegan reluctantly provides a set of Garret's map as well as 10 rations (worth
5GP). These were credited to Yzma since she started with zero rations available.
He only lends the maps and the food because he is worried about his husband. A
guide's maps are an invaluable possession that mark discovered landmarks,
potential dangers, safe places for rest, and hidden trails across the tundra.
This is knowledge that Garret has built over many years of exploration and he
does not want them to fall into the hands of a rival guide.

Looking at the maps, Titus and Fastbatch discern the most likely trail that
Garret would have taken if he was headed to Kelvin's Cairn.

## Preparing to cross the tundra

The party is faced with two choices:

1. Take the short route across the tundra and face the dangers that come with it
2. Take the long, safe route along the road through Caer Dineval

The group decided on Option 1. The trip across the tundra will take a day and a
half of travel. If Garret is in danger, they want to find him as quickly as
possible. Inquiring about sleds and sled dogs, you learn that a sled costs 20GP
and needs six dogs to pull it. A trained sled dog with enough stamina to pull a
sled costs 50GP. The all in cost for a sled is 320GP and costs 6GP per day
to maintain.

Compare this to an Axebeak, which will provide you the same speed benefits as a
team of sled dogs for a cheaper upfront cost of 120GP. However an Axebeak has
a ravenous appetite that will require 10GP per day, roughly 5 times as many
calories as a human. Axebeaks are also unpredictable and skiddish animals that
show no loyalty.

Unless assisted by magic or a geographic feature, the party can only achieve a
short rest in the wilderness.

## Towards Kelvins Cairn

The characters travel along the road north to Termalaine. Eventually there is a
large rocky outcropping jutting out of the east side of the road indicating it's
time to veer off into the tundra east.

The party elected Titus assisted by Thoval as navigators. Fastbatch will be the
lookout.

The tundra is unremarkable with few landmarks outside of the occasional igneous
rock formation jutting out of the ground. Occasional mounds dot the landscape,
tops of trees that have been buried under the unmelting snow. The perpetual
darkness and smoothing of features by the snow makes it incredibly difficult to
navigate even in perfect conditions

A light blizzard sets in on the party. They lash themselves together to avoid
becoming lost. Titus is able to use the map and travel slow to make sure that
they stay on course.

Once the Blizzard has passed, it has used up most of the good light and it is
now dark.

## Goliaths

The characters travel for roughly 8 hours and come upon a large dugout in the
snow. It looks unnatural. It looks like it was created by intelligent creatures
capable of using tools to escape the elements. It is a large, circular hole. Not
a trench of a grave. Fastbatch throws a torch in. Nothing happens but the torch
does snuff out when it hits the ground.

Thoval recognizes this as a common survival means for humanoids in Icewind Dale.
A snow dugout to rest and protect from the wind.

Neville and Fastbatch approach the edge of the hole. They peek over into the
dark dugout and each sees a pair of large hands reaching out to grab them.
Fastbatch is able to wriggle free but Neville is pulled in putting the rest of
the group in an awkward spot as they are still lashed together.

A glimpse of their faces in the dark shows the assailants to have intricate
designs painted on their face.

The party attempts to free themselves by slashing the rope. Those that
are still lash pull against the rope. And a few last out and attack. It
eventually becomes obvious, especially to Thoval who is from a clan of Goliaths
and to Neville who is being held that the party is dealing with a hunting party
of Goliaths. Neville and Thoval both talk the hunting party down and stop the
scuffle.

The goliaths recognize Thoval Skywatcher. They are on a journey seeking
Oyaminatorok, a goliath with lycanthropy (a werebear). Goliaths seek the power
and honor that comes with being bitten by Oya. Oya is a force of good and shares
his blessing only with those who prove themselves by feats of strength.

Neville is interested in traveling with the goliaths. They make him prove his
mettle by challenging him to a handstand contest. At first it seems as if
Neville go down quickly but he finds it within him to challenge his opponent,
earning the collective respect of the hunting party.

The goliaths share information, stories, food, and drink with the party. Near
the end of the night they join in a prayer with Thoval and Neville. They pray to
Kavaki, a goliath guardian watcher god whose aspect is a ram. Kavaki grants
advantage on STR checks and saving throws for 3 days to Neville and Thoval.

The goliaths share the following information through conversation:
- The goliaths are members of the Thuunlakalaga tribe from Wyrmdoom Crag
- The met and took pity on a starving band of orcs who would not present a fun or fair fight
- Based on the description, Osgood Dickens was killed by an ice weapon
- They are aware of Arveiturace, The White Widow
  - She is old and cataract cloud her eyes
  - Her blind-sight is not diminished
  - She would be a formidable foe if met in the wilderness
  - Goliaths and dragons are ancient enemies
  - She has always shown a healthy respect for humanoids
  - Dragons know that meddling with humans risks retribution
  - They would love to be known as the ones who killed Widow

The characters end the night with a long rest that counts as a short rest.
