# Session Three Notes

2020-11-23

## A new day

When the party comes to from their rest, the Goliaths are gone. Searching for
footprints shows that the hunting party set out to the northwest. Tracking
anyone or anything in the tundra is difficult because after a short while
blowing snow covers all tracks and footprints.

A long rest in the wilderness is nearly impossible save for spells like [Tiny
Hut](https://roll20.net/compendium/dnd5e/Tiny%20Hut) or considerable time spent
building a shelter plus a generous survival role. Goliaths are less susceptible
to the cold than smaller humanoid races and don't build their dugouts with the
comforts one would need for a rest. The dugout allows the party to take a short
rest, roll hit dice if needed, and stave off the most deleterious effects of the
cold like exhaustion.

Thoval noticed that the hunting party left him a gift, a scrimshaw horn, likely
due to his familial connection to the goliaths. The horn is called The Horn of
Safe Travels and is inscribed with the giant rune for journey, Ferd.

![Ferd](https://mrt-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/ferd.png)

The horn has two effects when blown:

- Anyone within 30 ft. that hears wakes up from a non-magical sleep
- Anyone within 300 ft. knows your exact location

At the beginning of the day there is roughly 5 hours of travel remaining.
Eventually, the party will need to make a decision: head directly to the
mountain Kelvin's Cairn or head first to the town of Caer Konig where Garret's
expedition would have begun to collect supplies and information. When it came
time to officially make a decision, Titus had a moment with Boy. The dog is
insistent on traveling towards the cairn. Yzma is initially hesitant because
being direction-less in the wilderness is dangerous.

History of the area informs the group the a group may go to the cairn for the
following reasons:

- It's a famous (and the only) peak in the area outside of the distant mountain tops in The Spine of the World
- There are many legends regarding the peak: Torm killed Kelvin, a frost giant lord, and buried him here
- There are loads of collapsed mining tunnels underneath containing entrances to the Underdark and potentially precious gems or metals
- The leader of the Battlehammer clan in Mithril Hall had a magical forge somewhere near the peak

The group comes to a consensus to head to the Cairn. It would certainly be
easier climbing the cairn with proper equipment and a guide from Caer Konig; but
if Garret is trapped or injured on the mountain he will more than likely be dead
by the time the party returns.

## Kelvin's Cairn

The party approaches the cairn during the few hours of dim light that are
afforded by Auril. The small mountain is a strange sight jutting out of the
otherwise flat, icy tundra. The peak is roughly 2000 ft. tall.

![Kelvin's Cairn](https://mrt-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/kelvins_cairn.png)

Boy leads the group directly to a base camp that would have been otherwise
difficult to find because it is now covered with snowdrifts. The only portion of
the camp that is visible is the tops of two red tents. Searching the area
reveals an overturned sled with an attached harness that would carry six sled
dogs. Most of the collars on the harness are broken indicating that the dogs
escaped by force. Further investigation turns up two crates. One crate is empty
and had obviously been broken into by the dogs. The other contains 8 rations.

The party deduces that this was likely Garret's Caravan. The tents and the
crates are marked with the overlapping "V" which is the trademark for Velryn's
Ventures.

![Trademark for Velryn's Ventures](https://mrt-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/velryn_ventures.PNG).

Nothing else of consequence is found. There are no bodies and no visible signs
of struggle. There is also no equipment, it would have been taken up the
mountain by the traveling party. The only things that were left, like the sled,
were things that were not useful during the climb.

A survival check tells the group that an experience guide could get up (5-6
hours) and down (3-4 hours) the mountain in a single day. The trip back to Caer
Konig from Kelvin's Cairn is three hours.

There is some discussion about what to do next. Should the group wait to see if
Garret returns down the mountain? If they head up the mountain, should someone
stay behind? Why were the dogs left alone at the base camp?

Initially the party decides to leave a note at the camp and return to Caer
Konig. As they are preparing to depart it becomes obvious that Boy will not go
with them. He's gone a short way up the mountain on an incline and is whining
and barking at the group. At this, the party decides to scout farther up the
mountain. Fastbatch and Yzma stay behind at the base camp. If, after six hours
has passed the group has not returned, they will venture up the mountain looking
for Neville, Titus, Jim, Thoval, and Boy.

### Mountain climbing group

Before starting up the mountain, Thoval and Jim tie themselves together with a
rope. Titus and Neville do not join in and decide to remain independent.

The characters trudge for roughly an hour and a half up a steep incline. It's
even more cold and windy above ground level and what light there is fades
quickly back to darkness. The initial climb requires no special expertise or
equipment, just the willingness to trudge forward.

The characters see mountain goats perched on a rocky outcropping and figure
there is a cave structure for shelter nearby that the goats would use.

After an hour and a half of traveling up the initial incline the climbers reach
a vast, glimmering expanse of tightly-packed white snow. While traveling across
the expanse the group hears deafening cracks beneath the snow which sound like
muffled explosions. Their footsteps have triggered an avalanche. The party bolts
for the opposite side of the expanse trying to reach stable, rocky ground. With
a few feats of wit, strength, and dexterity they are able to escape the worst
effects of the avalanche though they do take some bludgeoning damage from
falling snow and debris. Titus loses his footing and ends up a ways down the
mountain which causes the party to lose an hour after collecting his gear and
backtracking.

After recovering from the avalanche and crossing the disturbed expanse, they
find a shelter dug into the snow near the bottom of the second steep incline
which would take them higher up the mountain. Boy rushes in to the shelter.
Another dog and an injured Garret are inside. Neville heals Garret and Thoval is
able to safely slide him out of the shelter. He is wrapped shoulder to
midsection with torn fabric that is now soaked with mostly-frozen blood.

Garret takes well to the healing but it still exhausted. He had been at the to
of the mountain with the others in the expedition when they were attacked by a
yeti. Garret distracted the yeti and led it back down the mountain trying to
create an opening for the others to escape. The beast caught up with Garret at
the bottom of this incline, slashed his chest and bit him in the shoulder, and
left him for dead while it returned up the mountain for the others. Garret was
able to bandage himself and dig out a shelter to try and survive as long as he
could.

He passes on the following information:

- There are three others that were with him on the expedition that are still up the mountain
- He did not kill his partner Osgood
- His partner was killed by a member of Torg's caravan

While everyone is chatting, Boy is pounced by a crag cat. The group begins
attacking the cat and attempt to free Boy. The battle begins with a couple of
key missed shots though Garret is able to participate with his longbow and lands
two arrows. All of the attention is focused on Boy and the crag cat which
creates an opening for a second cat to pounce on Thoval.

![Crag cat](https://mrt-public.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/crag_cat.png)

Thoval is able to wrestle himself from beneath the crag cat and Titus has
disoriented the cat attacking boy. Garret and Jim are able to finish off the cat
on Boy with the help of Neville's faerie fire.

The tide of the battle turns quickly and both cats are suddenly dead after two
brutal attacks by Thoval.

There are no more heals left for Boy, who is not doing well. Titus carries Boy
since he cannot walk and Garret is too injured to support the additional weight.

Once the fight is over, Garret is insistent on going up the mountain against the
objections of the characters. The group is badly injured from the avalanche and
the crag cats and are not interested in traveling up the mountain to face off
against a yeti. Garret is concerned about the reputation of his business if he
leaves the other three to die at the hands of a yeti. After much convincing, he
agrees it's prudent to go down the mountain to regroup before returning for the
three remaining.

When they reach the bottom they meet back up with Fastbatch and Yzma.

### Camp watch group

When the rest of the party leaves to head up the mountain, Fastbatch and Yzma
spend some awkward time getting introduced and accustomed to each other. At one
point they hear a huge crack, that sounds like a giant tree breaking. Eventually
they realize from the snow sliding down the cairn that there was an avalanche.
They decide that it was likely caused by the others on the mountain but they
don't want to leave the camp because they don't want to create a situation where
the rest of the group comes back and they miss them.

They both decide to make the most of their time at the base camp and begin
looking for clues in the immediate area. They find fresh track so near to the
tent that it is anxiety-inducing. They know they are fresh because they can see
them; tracks are quickly covered by the snow. The footprints are small but
created by something with considerable weight based on how deep they sink into
the snow.

Fastbatch and Yzma follow the tracks at first for a quarter mile and then
another quarter mile as the first leg produced nothing. The footprints wrap
around the northwest side of the cairn. The prints leads to a stronghold hidden
on the opposite side of the cairn. Half-jutting out of the hillside on the
northwestern side of the cairn a gently sloping incline marked by a frozen creek
leads up to a huge set of iron banded double doors sitting at the narrowest
point of an inlet in the mountain where a brutal fortress juts out.

Yzma investigates and receives a crossbow bolt in the leg for her troubles
before her and Fastbatch make a quick exit.

## Caer Konig

Back at the bottom of the mountain the entire party regroups. Eventually a
combination of Titus and Fastbatch get Garret to head back to town; convincing
him that the other members of his caravan are likely dead.

After some questioning by Jim, Garret provides more details about Osgood's
death. He witnessed one of the members of Torg's caravan with long white hair
and piercing blue eyes murder Osgood with a weapon made of ice. Osgood was
killed because he evaded the lottery. Though he admits it as a mistake, he left
town after the murder for fear of his own life.

Torg's travels from town to town selling wares that are otherwise difficult to
get: wood, flint, medicine, ale, wine. It's an outdoor shop set up outdoors
under a canopy in the square of each town. Torg's trademark is a gold wolf paw
on a black field. The schedule is published in any common board in Ten-Towns.

Everyone including Garret and his second dog makes the three hour journey back
to Caer Konig with Titus carrying Boy. Caer konig is a town of 150 people; a
small town even by Ten-Towns standards. Outside of town there is a food
sacrifice to Auril: a large pile of frozen, discarded knucklehead trout. Near
the outskirts, covered with snow, there is a crumbling castle.

When the group enters town, a nearby snowdrift seemingly comes to life and a
large, silver dragonborn drunkenly stumbles out waving an empty wine bottle in
his hand as a weapon. He asks the characters outright if they are the thieves
that have been stealing from his town. The dragonborn is Torvus the town
speaker. He invites everyone to The Northern Light tavern to warm up and while
they are walking he tells them about the thieves that have been stealing from
townsfolk. First it was a sack of pearls, then two goats, and finally the
magical lantern that hands in front of The Northern Light. He's been tracking
the burglars but he's been unable to catch them. All he can ever find is their
footprints in the snow. this is trovus, town speaker

![Torvus](https://www.thealexandrian.net/images/20200920c.png)

Torvus regales everyone with a few stories of his adventuring days and it
well-attended by two, young, jovial women who run the inn. THey seem to take
care of him and treat him as a father figure. They scold him for drinking and
staying out in the cold.

Outside of the inn on the common board, Fastbatch finds Torg's schedule and
deduces that each location matches up with the timing of the previous three
murders.

