# Cold Open

## Icewind Dale

North of the Spine of the World and west of the Reghed Glacier is a frigid
expanse known as Icewind Dale. Far north of the nearest city, Luskan, and
accessible only by a mountain pass known as the Ten Trails, the Dale sits inside
of a valley carved eons ago by the glacier. Nestled in the valley of the Dale
are the Ten Towns. Most people who come to Ten-Towns are outcasts, fugitives, or
pariahs. Some came determined to make a fortune. Others came for the solitude,
or to escape notice and stay out of the reach of the law of the southern cities.
Most folks, however, are here simply because they were born here, grew up here,
and expect to die here. They're fishers, loggers, miners, hunters, trappers and
traders.

Icewind Dale has always been a harsh place to eek out an existence but recently,
two years ago, it became locked in a perpetual, dark winter without repreive.
Auril the Frostmaiden has cast a terrible spell over the Dale. Each night before
Midnight, Auril takes to the sky on the back of a white roc and weaves her
spell, which manifests as a shimmering curtain of light - a beautiful aurora
that illuminates the night sky and fades before dawn. This powerful magic
prevents the next day's sun from rising above the horizon, turning midday into
twilight and trapping Icewind Dale in winter's dark embrace, with no sunlight to
melt the snow and ice.

The people of Icewind Dale know Auril's wrath when they feel it, and they have a
name for the unending winter she has inflicted upon them: The Everlasting Rime.
No one understands why the Frostmaiden has imposed her will in this way or why
the other gods and powers of the south refuse to challenge her. This prolonged
winter threatens to doom Ten-Towns but Auril's spell feels so inevitable that
the hardy people of the Dale go on with the ordinary troubles of their
day-to-day lives.

Because of Auril's wrather, the average temprerature in Icewind Dale is -20.
Wind chill during a Blizzard can lower this by as much as 40 degrees. Residents
of the Dale wear layers of woolen clothing often topped off with fur cloaks.
Under these heavy clothes and cloaks, one resident looks very much the same as
another. Outdoors, it's hard to tell the people of Ten-Towns apart - and easy
for clever monsters and criminals to hide in their midst. The heavy clothing
does it's job protecting wearers from the most deleterious effects of the cold
but it is cumbersome and impsoses a -1 to any Dexterity check or saving throw
while wearing it. They are designed to be removed quickly if needed, taking one
action, but you need to choose which is more dangerous, the cold or your enemy.

## Targos

You've been trudging through the snow on foot for two hours downhill along the
road between Bryn Shander and Targos. You heavy winter clothing irrates your
skin and you feel the wind against the cold sweat generated from your brisk
pace. Each frozen rock you step on along the path feels like sharpened steel.
It's 3PM but it is completely dark outside. So long as the Everlasting Rime
lasts, natural light in Icewind Dale is difficult to come by. A dim, gray, hazy
light begins at 10AM but by 2PM it is completely dark save for the minor
illumination of the occasional full moon and the nightly ritual of the
Frostmaiden.

As you approach you can begin to make out the silhouette of the wooden walls
that surround the town of Targos. A gust of wind blows a flurry of water, ice,
and snow beneath your cloak causing a shiver to run down your spine. A ghastly
scene comes into view. A stone's throw outside of the city gates is a sharpened
post jammed deep into the ground. A dead body is bound to the stake with a heavy
nautical rope. The body a human, stripped naked and blue-skinned with small
snowdrifts collecting in various crevices. The icy cold prevents decay and the
blank eyes stare out into nothingness.

The desparate people of Ten-Towns, hoping to appease Auril so that summer can
return make sacrifices to the Frostmaiden on nights of the new moon. This is a
relatively new practice that began a little over a year ago when the Council of
Speakers uninimously agreed to honor these practices which many consider
horrendous but necessary evils. The nature of these sacrifices vary from town to
town but takes the form of human sacrifice, food, or warmth. The waxing crescent
just visible over the dark horizon tells you that this victim is relatively
fresh.

You pass by a guard bundled up in a small shack outside of the gates where the
heraldry of Targos is produly displayed. A scutcheon with a light blue
background and the stylized logo of a single-sailed boat. The town gates are
draped by a stanchion of guards with longswords and shields displaying Targosian
heraldry outside of their winter gear. The gates are only cracked open but free
to visitors in and out during "daylight" hours so long as no suspicions are
aroused.

Like Bryn Shander, which you call home, Targos is encircled by a wooden wall,
which helps to protect the town against orcs and other threats from the
wilderness. Unlike Bryn Shander, the wall at Targos extends out into the lake,
creating a near-complete circle save for a single exit for boats, providing a
safe harbor.

Once inside the city the wind lightens up a bit as the wall and surrounding
houses serve as natural barriers. Residents of Ten-Towns remain indoors when
they are not working, since it's so frightfully cold outside, which gives each
settlement a deathly quiet aspect. Most people who venture outdoors don't stand
around long enough for the cold wind to get the better of them.

Most of the ten towns except Bryn Shander are built on the shores of three big
lakes. Targos is built on Maer Dualdon which has the largest population of
knucklehead trout and is the deepest of the lakes. The snow crunches beneath
your feet as you climb a short escarpment. When you top the ridge you can see
the wooden docks extending out over Maer Duladon. lmost all the towns in Icewind
Dale depend on the lakes but nowhere is that more evident than Targos. The town
has always had the biggest fishing fleet. Eveything revolves around pulling
knicklehead trout out of Maer Duladon. Endless winter makes that work harder but
it goes on nonetheless. Auril's spell has frozen the water in the harbor, and
many of Targos's boats are trapped in the ice. Standing long the shore you can
see fishers dragging and sliding their small vessels across the ice to get to
and from the unfrozen lake beyond the harbor walls.

Ten-Towns fishing boats are simple affairs. The smallest are rowboats and
single-masted skiffs that require careful handling to avoid capsizing. Larger,
twin-masted cogs and keelboats with single decks handle the wind and waves
better. When thick ice covers the lakes, many fishers stay to the shelters of
their homes and hearths, but the modt dedicated or desparate cut holes in the
ice and dangle their lines down in hopes of tempting trout.

## The Murders

You've been instructed by Speaker Duvessa Shane to meet a sturdy dwarf named
Thoval at The Luskan Arms along the winding shore of the maer in Targos. You're
going to need some muscle for the job. Both of you have been deputized by
Sherriff Markham Southwell, commander of the Bryn Shander militia and sent to
find clues about a recent string of murders in Ten-Towns. The first murder
occured in Easthaven when a halfling fur trapper named Elsie Dapperfeet was
found in the town square pierced through the heart. Easthaven is a large
settlement by Ten-Town standards of 750 people on the southern edge of Lac
Dinneshere. Living is tough in Icewind Dale and it's denizens are no stranger to
hardship and tragedy but outright homicide inside a town is relatively rare and
punished harshly. Still, the first one didn't raise too many eyebrows outside of
Easthaven. Then, a few days later, another murder was committed - this time in
Bryn Shander the largest of the Ten Towns. A dwarven glassblower named Alfon
Nightwood found pierced through the heart and left dead for all to see in front
of The Northlook, Bryn Shanders most popular inn. Speaker Shane is a good woman
who believes in keeping her citizens safe through the rule of law so she
immediately called for an investigation. Turns out the dwarf was from Good Mead
staying in a rent house owned by Tilna Melo. Tilna runs a poor house and funnels
profits from her rentals back to feed the needy in Bryn Shander. In a move she
later regretted, she provided information on the dwarf in exchange to a stranger
for a large sum of money. She openly cooperated with the investigation and
informed the authorities that the stranger had piercing blue eyes and seemed to
be unaffected by the cold as he was wearing only light winter wear.

Then, two days after, another murder right up the road in Targos. A human ship
builder, Osgood Dickens, was killed just like the other two. As the defacto
leader of the Speaker's Council, Duvessa feels compelled to protect all the
citizens of Ten Towns. She has sent you both to Targos to gather what
information you can and, if possible, try to track down the killer.

As you pass through the town square you see a community board full of posters.
Some are old and tattered while a few others look to be relatively new.
Somewhere in the distance you can hear a dark barking. The wind causes the paper
to rattle and nearby a heavy canvas slaps the top of a flat board - some kind of
outdoor shop that looks to be abandoned. A sign hangs from the board and sways
with a powerful gust. The sign is painted black and embellished with a golden
lion. It reads "Torg's Trading Caravan, Be Back Soon!"

The warm air inside the inn blows out to greet you as the door to The Luskan
Arms swings wide. You're practically buzzing on the overwhelming comfort of
warmth as you stomp the snow off of your boots on a stone mat near the door. The
floorboards bounce with the pressure of your feet and you can feel a draft
coming up from what is probably the cellar. One particularly loud stomp sends a
rat scurrying from behind a nearby chair, sprinting across the floor and
dissapearing behind a wall. The innkeeper, a squat and balding man, looks up at
you long enough to acknowledge your existence and then returns to starting out
of the frosted window he's sitting by.

All around you are old, faded oil paintings of ships plunging through rought
waters. The inside of The Luskan Arms has a nautical feel. A ships wheel with a
brass plaque beneath it is perched on a small shrine. Behind the bar is mermaid
figurehead that likely adorned the front of a ship. Everything is covered in a
dust and grime and looks old.

There are two groups enjoying a drink and a meal in The Luskan Arms. Two haggard
looking men near the back and a stout dwarf and a lithe tiefling engaged in
conversation. The latter dwarf looks like your mark, Thoval.
