# Winter Lambs

## Caer Konig

The white, snow-covered slopes of Kelvin's Cairn loom large behind the quiet
lakeside town of Caer Konig. It started as a camp for a group of mountaineers
from the northern Moonsea region. As the camp grew, a wooden palisade was added
to discourage raiders. Later came the stone caste of Caer-Konig. Alas, neither
the palisade now the castle fared well; bother fell to orcs before falling to
ruin.

Caer Konig's heraldry is a white fish silhouette rising from the center bottom
of a dark blue field which has a white border on all sides except the bottom.
When you were coming in to town you noticed a frozen pile of knucklehead trout
stacked outside. Caer Konig's sacrifice to the frostmaiden is food. Much of it
had been picked at and carrier away by crag cats.

Caer Konig as it is known today consists of terraced rows of houses that recede
from the shore of Lac Dinneshire like the tiers of an amphitheater. It doesn't
take much to house the settlements 150 residents. The harbor is frozen, it's
docks skewed and broken by the shifting ice. Buried under the snow on the slops
above the last row of houses are the ruins of the caer that gave the town its
name - a reminder to the people of Caer Konig that nothing lasts forever in this
corner of the world.

Travel to and from this remote town was expedited by the ferry that ran out of
Easthaven, but with the ferry shut down, Caer Konig is completely cut off by
mountains, lake, and snow. The citizens are forced to live on what they can haul
out of the ice-covered lake.

As if things weren't bad enough, you learned upon arrived in the settlement that
the town has suffered several mysterious break-ins recently, with no evidence of
the intruders except dwarven boot tracks in the snow leading north. The town
speaker, a heavy-drinking dragonborn name Torvus, patrols at night to keep an
eye out for trouble. He met you as you came into town and informed you that so
far the thieves have stolen a pair of goats, a small sack of pearls from the
stores of Frozenfar Expeditions, and a color-switching lantern, taken from the
local inn The Northern Light.

## Torg's Caravan

Based on the information you collected from Garret, Osgood Dickens' murderer
travels with Torg's Caravan. The caravan is a traveling store carried by dog
sleds from town to town on a schedule. It sets up shop in common areas where
goods are unpacked and displayed in crates, with small canopies to keep the snow
off. The caracan is known for its emblem: a gold wolf's paw on a black field. It
should be easy to find when it's in town as Torg sets up outdoors in
semi-permanent structures.

Torg's is a blessing to most in Icewind Dale during this time. She sells wine,
cheap ale, medicines, tinctures, and even vials of poison... for killing
rodents. Even basic supplies are difficult to come by because of Auril's curse
so sometimes the necessities feel like a luxury.

## The Northern Light

You've all just sat down at a table with Torvus inside Northern Light. Torvus is
being gently chided by one of the sister-owners, Allie, for staying out drinking
all night in the cold.

> "Did you fall asleep outside again? I'm telling you Torvus, one day you're
> going to have to stop relying on the kindness of strangers."

Another woman older than Allie, Cori, bursts through the kitchen door stout and
scowling with a bowl of hot meal for Torvus.

> "No dwarf did this. Someone would have spotted 'em. No, there's something
> more going on. Besides, what use does a hungry dwarf have with a lantern?"
