# Session Four Notes

2020-12-07

## FIEVES!

![Footprints in the snow](https://images.wallpaperscraft.com/image/night_snow_mountains_121698_4000x6000.jpg)

The party is all gathered around a table in Northern Light with Torvus. Garret
and boy have gone to bed. They discuss the stolen items including the
color-changing lantern that hung on a hook out in front of the inn. The group
confirms that they've seen the same dwarf tracks as Torvus extending all the way
out to Kelvin's Cairn. The tracks are as tiny as Jim's feet but made by
something heavier.

Talking to Allie, Cori, and Torvus it is clear that the people of Caer Konig
don't have much except bad news:
- There was a fur trader that showed up alone in Good Mead without his family
- There is the serial murderer who has killed in Bryn Shander, Targos, and Easthaven
- Talking wolves killing travelers in Dougan's Hole
- A wizard in Easthaven has been jailed a tenday ago for killing townsfolk

What little they do have is now under threat by the thieves. Other than Glenn
at Hook, Line, and Sinker who has made a deal with the dwarves, nobody in town
has booze. Mead was shipped from Good Mead on the ferry which is now shut down
because the ice makes the journey dangerous. The people of Caer Konig feel
abandoned by Ten-Towns.

Torvus feels responsible as the speaker to affect what he can and catch the
thieves. His legacy as speaker is all he has left after his adventuring days.
He hopes things don't get worse before he can make them better. He hopes that
the murderer doesn't come to Caer Konig.

Torvus offers a troutmeal dinner, free lodging, and his magical breastplate that
he got from his adventuring days in an attempt to bribe the characters to help
him take care of the thieves at Kelvin's Cairn. IF nothing else Torvus asks
characters to put in a good word with SPeaker Shane in the "big city" of Bryn
Shander to get the ferry restarted.

Torvus' [breastplate](https://www.dndbeyond.com/equipment/breastplate) is a +1
breastplate with magical glyphs on the surface that will glow and vibrate when
the wearer is within 120 ft. of a dragon. He notes it would be handy if you
happened upon White Widow sleeping under a pile of snow; though she prefers elk
and bear to the taste of human.

After much back and forth Torvus makes a deal with Fastbatch. He'll let him
borrow the breastplate now while he sets out to find the murderer but then he
must come back right away and help Torvus track down the thieves. He also
promises renown and free lodging

Titus initially ignores Torvus' comments about the fur trader with the missing
family but inquires more deeply once the others have retired.

In her room, Yzma pulls out the note she received from Naerth and attempts to
forge a copy. She leaves the spot blank where her name would. The forgery roll
will happen when she tries to pass off the forgery.

Before heading to bed, Fastbatch drops off a letter for Speaker Shane in the
Palms Passing drop-box which is protected with runes. When he gets back to the
inn, Allie warns him about Titus. She says everyone deserves a second chance
but there have been some vicious rumors about him. Allie tells Fastbatch to
keep an eye open. Fastbatch inquires about her marital status and she claims to
be married to a fisherman who wakes up early for work.

## Beyond the wall of sleep

Once the charaters retire for the evening, each has a chance to reflect on the
events of the previous day.

### Thoval

Thoval drifts into a blissful state somewhere between the waking world and the
realm of sleep. The scrimshaw horn he was given has sparked both a nostalgic
yearning for home but also a boyish dream to conquer the wilds and fulfill the
mandate of his ancestors.

He thinks of home, Wyrmdoom Crag, and his clan, Thuunlakalaga. His thoughts soar
across Icewind Dale and through the immense, jagged peaks of the Spine of the
World. These proud people felled an ancient white dragon to claim their
ancestral home. It's skeletal remains still lie in the crag as a testament to
their triumph. Right now the clan is likely returning to the great hall after a
rousing game of goatball, preparing to feast and be regaled by stories from the
chieftain, Ogalai Orcsplitter Thuunlakalaga; her axe haft made from a dragon's
bone.

He thinks about what it means to be a goliath. One day he hopes to return and
crawl through the rune-carved tunnel, face his inner demons, and emerged
cleansed and marked as a tribal elder.

He thinks about the feud between his people and the the Akkanathi goliaths of
Skytower. The grudge began when a griffin from Skytower grievously wounded a
Thuunlakalaga competitor during a goatball exhibition. A devastating insult but
one that has been holding back inter-clan unity for decades. If the two clans
could be united, perhaps their combined might could be harnessed to hep defeat
Auril.

He thinks of his favorite story from his days as a young one in the great hall:
The Legend of Golyat. Golyat Trollcrusher Ekron-Ashkalon Thuunlakalaga was
gigantic even by goliath measures. Standing at 7’10” tall and weighing in at 380
lbs., Golyat was carved from the same stone that makes up the mountains
surrounding Wyrmdoom Crag.

The story goes that Golyat’s village was being besieged by a vicious and
deformed two-headed ice troll, but as others in his tribe gathered their weapons
and wits, Golyan never hesitated, leaping on to the back of the troll, grabbing
tightly, one arm locked around each of the trolls necks.

The troll clawed wildly at Golyan, who still latched to its back crushed its
neck and choked the air from its lungs. The writhing and thrashing lasted for
what legends grew to say was days, as the troll’s vaunted abilities kept him
upright and in the fight. But in the end, Golyan crushed that troll.

From that point forward, Golyan was recognized as his tribe’s greatest fighter,
known for going straight into an opponent, no matter the size. During one
battle, Golyan received a fatal injury, but rather than force his tribe to
endure the burden of his weakened state, Golyan alone slipped away in the cold
of the night.

Near the brink of death, Golyan was discovered by a mysterious figure who
plunged his fists hard into Golyan’s chest. It was Oyaminatorok; his fists
burned like they were blazing with fire and the heat surged through his entire
body, but miraculously, Golyan awoke the next day, fully healed and blessed with
the polar lycanthropy.

As he finally drift off to sleep, hr feels the kind presence of a ghostly
ancestor sitting across from the room. Watching over him. Now, and forever.

### Yzma

A short while after drifting off to sleep, Yzma recognizes the bite of ice
beneath her feet. The chill wind whips around her whole being. As usual, she is
un-phased by the cold. That's fortuitous as she is now standing stark naked on
the frozen shallows of Lac Dinneshire.

Before her, a heavy obsidian table top darker than the natural darkness
outdoors. It has no legs and undulates almost imperceptibly under the force of
some type of levitation. Behind the table is a tall figure that strikes a
strange silhouette. The creature has the trappings of a human, two eyes but each
is a deep void with no whites. A sharp nose above a mouth of thin lips that hint
at enlarged canines hidden beneath. It has four horns, two on each side, which
twist around each other and trace the crown of its head. Sitting on top of the
horns is a neatly combed hairstyle. Golden jewels peak out from underneath a
neat, white suit in a style which you've never seen. Beneath it's hooves the ice
melts, bubbles, and refreezes. Everything smells intensely of sulfur.

The devil's name is Erzanad. He does not yet even know his true master. This is
a form of insurance for the rules of the Nine Hells.

Erzanad tells Yzma that her master and the council have been please with her
work. He informs her that they are offering her a familiar in exchange for her
agreement to a contract.

He uncorks a scroll protector, slides out a roll of fresh parchment, unties a
golden strand binding the roll, and unfurls it.

The contract reads:

>Yzma hereinafter known as the party of the first part does enter into contract
>with The Subjugator who shall not be named and will hereinafter be referred to
>as the party of the second part.
>
>The party of the second part hereby grants the party of the first part a
>non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, license covering access to the
>original and modified forms of The Arcanum of the Hells. Modifications to the
>work that do not automatically fall under the terms of this package, but
>belong to whomever generated them, may be distributed subject to the
>combination of the  contributor and the creating author.
>
>The following agreement is covered only if the party of the first part does
>not fail to comply with the subjugation agreement subsection B paragraph 18
>recreated here in it's entirety for reference:
>
>The practitioner of infernal arts must, at least once during a ten day span,
>forcibly acquire eight hours of time from a victim of their choosing not
>afforded voluntarily by the victim.
>
>Here victim means an innocent by the standards of human law that has no
>previous relationship with the practitioner.
>
>During this aforementioned time of subjugation the practitioner must apply to
>the victim by force one form of mental anguish as defined by the standard of
>The Manual of Torture by the inquisitors of the Tanar'ri including but not
>limited to:
>
>- oxygen deprivation force-feeding blinding with light impalement of the hands
>- or feet pitch-capping hypothermia
>
>The victim must both during and after remain cognizant of the subjugation.
>
>Failure to comply will result in revocation of privileges afforded by the
>infernal contract and infringement upon the fundamental rights of the party of
>the first part.

Before signing, Yzma negotiates a 12 day time span instead of a 10 day span as
outlined in the contract. Plus she receives a single IOU in the event that she
fails to deliver once within a 12-day period.

Erzanad reaches inside of his jacket pocket and produces two items that seem to
large to have been contained without some type of magic. The first is a vicious
dagger, it's hilt wrapped in a brown, aged leather that still shows the tattoos
on the skin of the one living host. The curved dagger blade is forged from a
glistening, red-tinted steel. The second item is a quill pen, the feather from
some unidentified creature reflects opalescent light as it catches the waning
reflection from Auril's aurora overhead.

To sign, both Erzanad on behalf of his master and Yzma pierce the center of
their hand with the dagger and sign the contract using their blood on the quill
pen. Immediately after signing, Erzanad bows and the whole scene disappears.

Yzma is left alone on the shores.

### Neville

At some point during the night Neville awakens from his slumber. An icy draft
sneaks under the piles of blankets on his bed. Eventually, he realizes that the
window in his room is open.

It doesn't take him long to realize his bagpipes have been stolen. Looking out
the window, he sees Yzma returning from the lake. THere are footsteps in the
snow piles on the roof outside of his window.

## I'm not explaining my personality to you, sir

Neville goes immediately downstairs to harass Allie about his missing pipes.
Downstairs in the inn he bangs on the door belonging to the younger of the two
sisters that own Northern Light. Once awake, she wakes up and immediately
apologizes and offers to alert the town speaker as the pipes were more than
likely stolen by the same thieves that stole her lantern.

Neville ratchets up the terror by casting Dancing Lights. He commands the orbs
to orbit himself turning him into a glowing avatar. Terrified, Allie sprints
from the inn into the freezing night barefoot and wearing only her bedclothes.
She heads across the way from the inn towards Hook, Line, and Sinker with
Neville chasing her.

Yzma notes the scene as she returns from the lake, still totally nude. However,
she deems this not her problem and is largely uninterested. As Yzma makes her
way back into the inn, Titus comes out of his room. Titus asks Yzma what's going
on and tells her to go get dressed. Yzma, her mood ruined, simply retires. Jim
is awake and hears the commotion but chooses not to leave the warmth of his
blankets and hearth. Titus throws his clothes on and follows Neville who is
running after Allie.

The tavern is engaged in its normal revelry when the crew arrives. The first
Allie sees in the proprietor of Hook, Line, and Sinker Korglenn "Glenn"
Eglendar. Glenn momentarily attempts to calm Allie but decides diffusion to be
the most prudent route when he spots a glowing bard running across the snow
shouting "I need my pipes!" Due to the commotion, the raucous scene quiets down
as all eyes in the tavern turn to watch Neville.

Neville walks in and starts throwing sparks, flashes of lights, and cracks of
sound all over the bar. Several of the sparks shatter glasses, tip over
furniture, and send food flying. The tavern is sent into a frenzy as patrons
rush to escape through various windows and doors.

Torvus tries to talk some sense into Neville and connect with him as a fellow
adventurer but it doesn't work. Titus arrives shortly behind Neville using his
hands motions and voice to soothe Neville. His presence seems to calm the
situation. Torvus and Titus tell Neville about the deal that Fastbatch made with
Torvus to go track down the thieves. However, Torvus is interested in using
Neville's urgency to convince the adventurers to go for the thieves first,
before traveling to Caer Dineval to track down the murderer.

Titus and Neville have a long conversation about appropriate levels of response
to frustrating situations.

The next morning, Cori does her due diligence serving breakfast but is obviously
upset at the party for the events of the previous night. On top of that, she is
grumpy that all of the furniture seems to have spontaneously rearranged itself
in a strange way. She convinced it has something to do with the group but Jim 
gets a smile from her with some smooth talk.

The whole crew learns of the events last night. Neville gives a half apology but
is still quite upset about his bagpipes.

Everyone makes a stop at Frozenfar Expeditions to purchase rations before
leaving town. The owners have heard about the events from the previous night
and don't want to give favorable prices to the characters but Thoval is able to
talk him down.

Garret stays behind at the request of the party since he is the only eye witness
to Osgood's murder. He leaves Boy at Frozenfar Expeditions - raising and
boarding sled dogs makes them the closest things to veterinarians in the
settlement.

## Winter Lambs

![Caer Dineval](https://db4sgowjqfwig.cloudfront.net/campaigns/251759/assets/1119673/Caer-dineval.png?1602174931)

Caer Dineval is a two-hour trip on foot from Caer Konig. The path takes
travelers along an inhospitable path tracing the shore of Lac Dinneshire.
Various growls and roars can be heard in the distance reminding everyone that
they are on the edge of what exists of civilizations.

If you thought Caer Konig was small, welcome to Caer Dineval. Everything is
ramshackle and looks abandoned save for the few bodies seen shuffling about.
Caer-Dineval is a skeletal haunt with far too little left on its bones.

When you arrive to are immediately confronted by the fortification for which the
town is famous: it's cliff-top fortress, known as the Caer, and the ruined
watchtower at the mouth of the frozen harbor. Most of the buildings, which date
back to the town's Cormyrean founders, line the path that winds down the steep
slope for the Caer to the harbor.

In generations past, travelers to Caer Dineval had to follow the same rocky
shore of Lac Dinneshire as you did. A ferry out of Easthaven made the arduous
trek unnecessary for merchants and other travelers, but the ferry was
discontinued two months ago. This cut Caer Dineval and Caer Konig off from the
rest of Ten-Towns.

If it weren't for Torg's caravan set up in the center of town, the group
wouldn't see any activity.

Torg's caravan consists of three heavily laden dog sleds, each one pulled by six
friendly sled dogs that lay about panting in the snow now that their work for
the day is done. Torg's is an outdoor shop. Goods are unpacked and displayed in
crates with small canopies to keep the snow off them. 

There are several patrons lined up to purchase goods from Torg's. Torg takes
orders and entertains the shoppers. The other five pull items from poorly
arranged crates and package them for customers. Jim identifies the killer and
his glowing blue eyes when he meets his gaze.

While trying to cut in line, Yzma happens to run into a fan who is carrying
armfuls of wine and cheese. His name is Garion Valere. Garion recognizes Yzma as
the author of "Hellbent Highborn" and is ecstatic to meet her. He invites her to
be the guest of honor at the castle where there is wine and cheese and food and
feasting and beds and warmth. Yzma politely accepts as long as she can bring
her
"servants": the rest of the group. Garion assures her that will be just fine. He
tell her that they have the finest lodging outside of Bryn Shander ad that they
will have warm fires. Everyone else in Caer Dineval will be dangerously cold
tonight as their chosen sacrifice is warmth. This comments raises the ire of the
one that the party believes to be the murderer.

Before Garion begins walking back up the hill to the castle he tells Yzma the
password: "Churning Blood" spoken in Infernal. He remarks that there may be a
business proposition available and Yzma mentions she will name one of the
characters in her new book after Garion.

Fastbatch concocts a plan to talk to the killer and then lures him off alone.
Fastbatch walks a short distance off with the accused killer and Jim tracks
closely but is shooed away. In no time at all, the killer is overly friendly and
it is obvious that he suffers from some kind of madness.

The killer confesses to Fastbatch that he kills people who ignore the sacrifices
to Auril. The killer was given a second chance at life by druidic resurrection.
As repayment, they ordered him to serve Auril. He ends to conversation by
telling Fastbatch that he needs to get back to work. Walking back towards the
caravan, he takes off his cold weather gear. He's obviously unaffected by the
cold.

Fastbatch punches him in the back of the head as he is walking away.

