2021-04-05

## Easthaven

You find a bustling crowd in Easthaven. Everyone is jockeying for the best spot
to view the execution of a wizard tomorrow night. The group is approached by the
Captain of the Guard: . She asks some basic questions about where the party has
come from. Upon finding out it is Caer Dineval, she asks about Speaker Crannoc
Siever.

The two deputized investigators with connections to the local government decide
to let the arrogant Tiefling and the old drunk with a bad reputation do the
talking.

After some awkward chit chat, she expresses her gratitude at adventurers looking
to do good in the absence of The Three Feathers. She reminds everyone to watch
their pockets and walks a short distance away to continue her observation.
Having survived an encounter with authority, the group wants a second chance to
get in trouble so they beckon her over once more.

The group convinces the captain that they were deputized by Speaker Shane to
find info on the murderer and went above and beyond duty by killing him. To
prove this they present to the captain a severed heard produced from Thoval's
backpack. This expectedly causes to ask further questions. Eventually they all
travel consentually to the Easthaven Town Hall to visit Speaker Danneth Waylen
with Titus slinking behind in the shadows.

## Town hall

The Easthaven town hall is a wonderful example of the Icewind Dale way of life
during the fat years before the Rime. It is adorned with a prized trout named
Big Knuck, a stage for events, and several paintings that provide a window into
a bygone way of life.

The group is led into an administrative office and told in no uncertain terms to
wait. Any other doors are off limits. Titus "sneaks" in to the town hall by
asking nicely and meets up with the others.

After a short wait, Speaker Waylen enters and thanks the group for their work.
He examines the evidence found on Sephek and identifies them as Osgood Dickens'
ring and Elsie Dapperfeet's hunting dagger. Additionally he thanks the group for
saving one of the speakers guild: Speaker Siever. Impressed by their
capabilities, Waylen offers the crew steady work once they have completed their
existing obligations. He invites them into his office for a full debrief.

Outside of the office is a large, demonic figurehead made of chardalyn suspended
by ropes from the ceiling. Wood juts from its back where it was attached to a
ship; perhaps a trading or junker vessel belonging to the Dinevs. Speaker
Danneth Waylen informs the party that it was found at the bottom of the lac by
fisherman. They brought it to Easthaven hoping for a reward which they received.
Waylen warns the group of what they already know: not to touch it. At one time
it likely held some protection magic but it is now, like all other chardalyn,
suffused with a cursed magic. Despite spending years at the bottom of the lake,
it is still gleaming with nothing of life growing on its surface.

Chardalyn was a common material many years ago in Icewind Dale but has been
mostly mined out save for a few veins to be found in the tundra. There is
probably even more out on the glacier but it is too difficult to retrieve.

## Waylen's Office

Waylen offers a lot of information:

Dzaan, a wizard of the Arcane Brotherhood and a member of The Red Wizard of
Thay has been captured. He paid several townspeople to help him find a spire in
the tundra and then killed them to conceal it's location. He was found tired and
weak returning from the tundra which allowed the town guard to arrest him. They
cut off his tongue and hands and jailed him until execution. Titus was told he
could visit the wizard but not alone.

His partner was caught in Bryn Shander and sent to Revel's End.

Jim and Fastbatch are asked to deliver a message to Duvessa. She thinks that the
Arcane Brotherhood are at fault for the Rime but Waylen is trying to convince
her otherwise.

The captain of the Easthaven Ferry, , spends his time and money at The Wet
Trout. The ferry isn't running simply because it is frozen and the ice is too
dangerous. Waylen gives the party a key if they would like to investigate.

He asks the crew to go to Lonelywood and close the book on the Sephek Kaltro
matter.

# Wilhelm

Now that his curse has been lifted, Fastbatch can speak to Wilhelm again.
Wilhelm trapped his essence in the penumbral core to continue to help and learn
after he passed. He presses Fastbatch on his desire to fight the fiendish evil
that is undoubtedly nearby.
