2020-12-07

## FIEVES!

The party discusses the stolen items with Torvus.

- The color-changing lantern that hung on a hook out in front of the inn
- Two goats
- A sack of pearls from Frozenfar Expedition

In each case, Torvus has found footprint similar to the footprints seen by
Fastbatch and Yzma at Kelvin's Cairn. The tracks are as tiny as Jim's feet but
made by something heavier.

Talking to Allie, Cori, and Torvus it is clear that the people of Caer Konig
don't have much except bad news. The people of Caer Konig feel abandoned by
Ten-Towns.

- There was a fur trader that showed up alone in Good Mead without his family
- There is the serial murderer who has killed in Bryn Shander, Targos, and Easthaven
- Talking wolves killing travelers in Dougan's Hole
- A wizard in Easthaven has been jailed a tenday ago for killing townsfolk

What little they do have is now under threat by the thieves.

Nobody in town but Glenn has booze. Mead was shipped from Good Mead on the ferry
which is now shut down because the ice makes the journey dangerous. Glenn, the
owner of Hook, Line, and Sinker has made a deal with the dwarves to restock
booze.  

Torvus offers a troutmeal dinner, free lodging, and his magical breastplate that
he got from his adventuring days in an attempt to bribe the characters to help
him take care of the thieves at Kelvin's Cairn. If nothing else Torvus asks
characters to put in a good word with Speaker Shane in the "big city" of Bryn
Shander to get the ferry restarted.

Torvus' [breastplate](https://www.dndbeyond.com/equipment/breastplate) is a +1
breastplate with magical glyphs on the surface that will glow and vibrate when
the wearer is within 120 ft. of a dragon. He notes it would be handy if you
happened upon White Widow sleeping under a pile of snow; though she prefers elk
and bear to the taste of human.

After much back and forth Torvus makes a deal with Fastbatch. He'll let him
borrow the breastplate now while he sets out to find the murderer but then he
must come back right away and help Torvus track down the thieves. He also
promises renown and free lodging.

Before heading to bed, Fastbatch drops off a letter for Speaker Shane in the
Palms Passing drop-box which is protected with runes. When he gets back to the
inn, Allie warns him about Titus. She says everyone deserves a second chance but
there have been some vicious rumors about him.

## Beyond the wall of sleep

During the evening, each has a chance to reflect on the events of the previous
day.

### Thoval

Thoval drifts into a blissful state somewhere between the waking world and the
realm of sleep. The scrimshaw horn he was given has sparked both a nostalgic
yearning for home but also a boyish dream to conquer the wilds and fulfill the
mandate of his ancestors.

He daydreams of life back in [Wyrmdoom
Crag](https://frostmaiden.assimilate.dev/goliaths/). As he finally drift off to
sleep, hr feels the kind presence of a ghostly ancestor sitting across from the
room. Watching over him. Now, and forever.

### Yzma

A short while after drifting off to sleep, Yzma recognizes the bite of ice
beneath her feet. The chill wind whips around her whole being. As usual, she is
un-phased by the cold. That's fortuitous as she is now standing stark naked on
the frozen shallows of Lac Dinneshire.

Yzma meets the consort of an archdevil, Erzanad. Erzanad does not know the true
name of his master. He tells Yzma that the council is pleased with her recent
work. They come to terms on a
[contract](https://frostmaiden.assimilate.dev/devils/) that will have Yzma
torture an innocent in exchange for expanded powers.

Before signing, Yzma negotiates a 12 day time span instead of a 10 day span as
outlined in the contract. Plus she receives a single IOU in the event that she
fails to deliver once within a 12-day period.

To sign, both Erzanad on behalf of his master and Yzma pierce the center of
their hand with the dagger and sign the contract using their blood on the quill
pen. Immediately after signing, Erzanad bows and the whole scene disappears.

Yzma is left alone on the shores.

### Neville

At some point during the night Neville awakens from his slumber. An icy draft
sneaks under the piles of blankets on his bed. Eventually, he realizes that the
window in his room is open.

It doesn't take him long to realize his bagpipes have been stolen. Looking out
the window, he sees Yzma returning from the lake. THere are footsteps in the
snow piles on the roof outside of his window.

## I'm not explaining my personality to you, sir

Neville goes wild at the loss of his instrument. He terrorizes Allie the innkeep
and chases her through the cold night to Hook, Line, and Sinker. He he continues
his reign of terror by casting spells and scaring the locals.

After a showdown with Torvus, Titus is able to ease tensions and leveler heads
prevail. Walking back to Northern Light, Titus and Neville have a long
conversation about appropriate levels of response to frustrating situations.

Everyone makes a stop at Frozenfar Expeditions to purchase rations before
leaving town. The owners have heard about the events from the previous night and
don't want to give favorable prices to the characters but Thoval is able to talk
him down.

Garret stays behind at the request of the party since he is the only eye witness
to Osgood's murder. He leaves Boy at Frozenfar Expeditions - raising and
boarding sled dogs makes them the closest things to veterinarians in the
settlement.

## Winter Lambs

Caer Dineval is a two-hour trip on foot from Caer Konig. The path takes
travelers along an inhospitable path tracing the shore of Lac Dinneshire.
Various growls and roars can be heard in the distance reminding everyone that
they are on the edge of what exists of civilizations.

If you thought Caer Konig was small, welcome to Caer Dineval. Everything is
ramshackle and looks abandoned save for the few bodies seen shuffling about.
Caer-Dineval is a skeletal haunt with far too little left on its bones.

If it weren't for Torg's caravan set up in the center of town, the group
wouldn't see any activity.

As expected, he party finds the killer with the deep blue eyes working for
Torg's caravan. Yzma is approached by a fan of her work from back in Waterdeep,
Garion Valere. He invites Yzma to a party in the castle on the hill. Before
leaving he provides her the password required for entrance: "Churning Blood"
spoken in Infernal. He remarks that there may be a business proposition
available and Yzma mentions she will name one of the characters in her new book
after Garion.

Fastbatch concocts a plan to talk to the killer and then lures him off alone.
Fastbatch walks a short distance off with the accused killer and Jim tracks
closely but is shooed away. In no time at all, the killer is overly friendly and
it is obvious that he suffers from some kind of madness.

The killer confesses to Fastbatch that he kills people who ignore the sacrifices
to Auril. The killer was given a second chance at life by druidic resurrection.
As repayment, they ordered him to serve Auril. He ends to conversation by
telling Fastbatch that he needs to get back to work. Walking back towards the
caravan, he takes off his cold weather gear. He's obviously unaffected by the
cold.

Fastbatch punches him in the back of the head as he is walking away.

**Next Post:** [Session Five
Notes](https://frostmaiden.assimilate.dev/session-five/)
